# Advent of Code 2020 - Day 8: [Handheld Halting](https://adventofcode.com/2020/day/8)
By Alex Prosser

This puzzle about an imaginary handheld console where we have to fix the boot program, which is the input. The console has an accumulator, program counter, and three instructions; `acc`, `jmp`, `nop`. The instructions have a format of `[instruction] (+|-)[number]`. `acc` adds `number` to the accumulator, `jmp` adds `number` to the program counter, and `nop` does nothing. The first part is about finding the first instruction the gets run twice and returning the accumulator. We can find this by keeping track of the program counters that have already happened. I used an array and if the current program counter is new, I add it to the array. If it is not, then we just stop the loop and return the accumulator. The second part is fixing the boot program to not run forever by changing one of the `jmp` or `nop` instructions to `nop` and `jmp`, respectively. I just created a function that runs the program based on the instructions in the argument. That way, it can run any set instructions rather than just the input. Then, I go through all the `jmp` and `nop`. I change only one instruction, then I run that new program. The only hard part was checking if a program terminated or not. Since I'm not trying to solve the Halting Problem, I just run a cycle threshold to check if the program stops or not. I found a value of 500 works for most inputs, and it is small enough to be fast. After finding the program that stops, I just return the accumulator.