# Advent of Code 2022 - Day 11: [Monkey in the Middle](https://adventofcode.com/2022/day/11)
By Alex Prosser

Leaderboard: 52 (Part 1) / 226 (Part 2)

YAY! First time ever on the global leaderboard, and it feels good! I wasn't expecting that because I definitely thought I was behind pace after all my slow typing. Anyways, in this puzzle, we are analyzing monkeys and how the look at objects. We have a list of "worry values" that correspond to these objects, and the monkeys raise our worry values by certain amounts. The first challenge was parsing the input, as they didn't have a computer-friendly text input; however, `.split()` and `parseInt()` are good friends here. Next, we need to move all the values according to an operation, which means that we have to do some sort of parsing. Or, with very a sad face, we can use `eval()`. It isn't the best option, but it is an option. Then, if it is divisible by the number given, give it to one monkey; if not, give it to another monkey. This leads to surprisingly simple code where we just do the math, figure out where the monkey goes, and keep track of the most active. In part 1, we do `20` rounds of this. We also divide all the values by `3` before we send it to another monkey, and multiply the two most active monkey's passes together to get the answer. In part 2, we remove the divide by `3` part and do `10000` rounds, which means are numbers are too large to store. Luckily, all the divisible numbers are prime, which means we can actually limit the amount it can be by multiplying all the numbers together, which gives us an easy way to do `10000` rounds.