# Advent of Code 2022 - Day 16: [Proboscidea Volcanium](https://adventofcode.com/2022/day/16)
By Alex Prosser

Leaderboard: 13896 (Part 1) / 8949 (Part 2)

Oof. I didn't do so well on this one. This is the first puzzle that I didn't do the same night because I didn't have any idea of how to do it immediately. I will say that I used the subreddit on this a lot as I had no idea how to approach it; however, I do understand what to do and wrote my own code instead of copying it from another source. In this puzzle, we need to maximize the rate that a volcano flows by turning valves. To do that, we first need to travel to the valve, which takes a minute per tunnel passed and a minute to turn. In part 1, we need to find the maximum rate we can create in `30` minutes. In part 2, we have to find the maximum rate if us and an elephant turn the valves, but we only have `26` minutes instead. To do this, we first need to find the distances between each valve. Then, we need to see how much of a rate we can get by traveling to all valves and turning this on, and keep doing this recursively while subtracting the time it takes to get there and turn it on. With this strategy, however, we need to optimize as we are going to be hitting a lot of valves. That is why we never turn on an empty valve and we stop once we know the time isn't going to be enough for other valves. For part 2, we just need to see how much two paths that never intersect can do. Another optimization here is only keeping the highest score for any set of valves because it doesn't matter how we get to them as long as they are the same. 